{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf140
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue102;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17160\viewh13660\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs20 \cf0  After addition of an\
internal standard (2,3,5,6,3
\f1 ?
\f0  -pentachlorobiphenyl\
(CB112)), the extract was concentrated on a rotary\
ev aporator, and the extract was cleaned by gel permeation\
chromatography (GPC) ov er Polymer Laboratories\
(PL) gel column (600
\f1 
\f0\fs8 \cf1 /
\fs20 \cf0  25 mm, pore size 10 
\f1 m
\f0  m), using\
dichloromethane at 10 ml/min. The fraction between 17\
and 23 min, representativ e for compounds with molecular\
mass lower than m/z 1000 and free of triglycerids,\
was collected. The fraction was concentrated under\
nitrogen to approximately 200 
\f1 m
\f0  l. The final analysis\
was carried out with GC/MS, using electron capture\
negativ e ionisation (ECNI) as ionisation technique with\
 methane as a reagent gas. A 50 mCP Sil 8 column (i.d.\
0.25 mm, film thickness 0.25 
\f1 m
\f0  m) under full scan\
conditions (m/z 34
\f1 
\f0\fs8 \cf1 /
\fs20 \cf0  800) was utilised. In addition, an\
electron impact (EI) full scan screening (m/z 34
\f1 
\f0\fs8 \cf1 /
\fs20 \cf0  800)\
was performed. The peak identification was based on a\
comparison of MS-spectra from the NIST98 library and\
using the deconv olution peak identification programme\
AMDIS.\
The ECNI technique was used for its sensitiv ity for\
bromine. A selectiv e ion monitoring chromatogram of\
bromine (m/z 79) is shown in \cf2 Fig. 1\cf0  B for C. intestinalis  .\
All these peaks contained also the bromine isotope m/z\
81(results not shown) except one (indicated in \cf2 Fig. 1\cf0  B).\
}