{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf140
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green19\blue20;\red45\green46\blue141;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs20 \cf2 Experimental procedures\
Immunisation and generation of monoclonal hybridomas\
Cell wall polymers were isolated from 6 week old wild type\
A. thaliana plants, ecotype Col-0, grown in soil at 22\'b0C\
with cycles of 10 h of light/14 h of darkness. One g dry\
weight of a mixture of leaves, stems and roots was\
homogenized to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The\
homogenate was incubated with 20 ml 50 mM 1,2-\
Diaminocyclohexanetetraacetic acid (CDTA; pH 7.5) for\
3 h at 18\'b0C and centrifuged for 20 min at 4,400 rpm. The\
supernatant was collected and dialyzed extensively against\
deionized water (dH
\fs13 2
\fs20 O) in dialysis tubing (6
\f1 \'96
\f0 8,000 kDa\
molecular weight cut off) to remove low molecular weight\
molecules and freeze dried. The material was dissolved in\
phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) to generate the immunogen.\
Rats were used for antibody production so as to make subsequent\
comparisons with existing mAbs, most of which were\
produced in rats, as valid as possible. The immunization of\
rats, hybridoma preparation and cloning procedures were as\
described previously [\cf3 24\cf2 ]. Briefly, two male Wistar rats were\
each injected subcutaneously with 250 
\f1 \uc0\u956 
\f0 l of an emulsion\
of the isolated cell wall material at 1 mg/ml in PBS with\
an equal volume Freund
\f1 \'92
\f0 s complete adjuvant on day 0. On\
days 40 and 79 the injections were repeated using incomplete\
adjuvant. Tail bleeds were taken 10 days after injections to\
assess the immune response. On day 198 a pre-fusion boost\
was given to the selected rat and 3 days later, the spleen was\
removed and lymphocytes were isolated and fused with rat\
myeloma cell line IR983F [\cf3 25\cf2 ] using standard polyethylene\
glycol fusion of lymphocytes and myeloma cells. Hybridoma\
lines were initially screened by ELISA with the immunogen\
coated onto microtitre plates (MaxiSorp, Nunc, Roskilde,\
Denmark) at 50 
\f1 \uc0\u956 
\f0 g/ml.\
Previously described monoclonal antibodies\
Arrays were probed with 23 mAbs with previously described\
specificities and details of these are provided in Table \cf3 1\cf2 . All\
were rat antibodies except mAbs CCRC-M1, BS-400-02,\
BS-400-03, and BS-400-04 which were produced in mice\
and PAM1 which was produced by phage display. Details of the 50 defined glycans used are provided in Table \cf3 2\cf2 .\
Most glycans were dissolved in dH
\fs13 2
\fs20 O. Arabinoxylan and\
glucuronoxylan were prepared by boiling in dH
\fs13 2
\fs20 O for 10 min.\
and then standing for 3 h at 18\'b0C before use. Glucomannan\
was prepared by wetting with 95% ethanol followed by\
addition of dH
\fs13 2
\fs20 O. The mixture was heated to boiling point\
and stirred for 20 min until dissolved. Pachyman was\
prepared by dissolution in a minimal volume of 10% (w/v)\
sodium hydroxide followed by neutralization with acetic acid.\
14 samples on the arrays were cell wall polymers extracted\
from A. thaliana organs listed in Table \cf3 2 \cf2 using CDTA and\
4 M NaOH. Fifty milligrams (fresh weight) of each organ\
collected from at least four separate plants were homogenized\
to a fine powder prior to adding 300 
\f1 \uc0\u956 
\f0 l of 50 mM CDTA\
(pH 7.5). After incubating with rotation for 4 h at 20\'b0C, the\
extracts were centrifuged at 4,400 rpm for 10 min and the\
supernatants (
\f1 \'91
\f0 CDTA extracts
\f1 \'92
\f0 ) removed. Pellets were resuspended\
in 300 
\f1 \uc0\u956 
\f0 l of 4 M NaOH and samples were incubated\
with rotation for 4 h at 20\'b0C prior to centrifugation at\
4,400 rpm for 10 min. Supernatants were 
\f1 \'91
\f0 NaOH extracts
\f1 \'92
\f0 .\
Post-printing modification of glycans\
Glycan samples on selected arrays were modified in situ\
after printing by enzymatic digestion. For the data in Fig. \cf3 6\
\cf2 selected arrays were digested with endo-
\f1 a
\f0 (1-5)-L-arabinanase\
or endo-
\f1 b
\f0 (1-4-)-galactanase (both from Aspergillus\
niger, Megazyme (Bray, Ireland) used at 1 U/ml in 200 mM\
sodium acetate pH 4.0.\
Printing of arrays\
Glycans were applied to nitrocellulose membrane (0.45 
\f1 \uc0\u956 
\f0 m\
pore size, Schleicher and Schuell, Dassel, Germany) at two\
concentrations (0.2 and 0.04mg/ml) and in duplicate such that\
each sample was represented by four spots. CDTA and NaOH\
extracted A. thaliana material was printed as extracted and as\
a five fold dilution, also in duplicate. Printing was performed\
using a microarray robot (Microgrid II, Genomic Solutions,\
Ann Arbor, MI, USA) equipped with split pins (MicroSpot\
2500, Genomic Solutions). Pins were washed twice in dH
\fs13 2
\fs20 O\
after deposition of each sample.\
Probing of arrays\
Arrays were blocked by incubation for 1 h in PBS (140 mM\
NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl,10 mM Na
\fs13 2
\fs20 HPO
\fs13 4
\fs20 , 1.7 mM KH
\fs13 2
\fs20 PO
\fs13 4
\fs20 ,\
pH 7.5) containing 5% w/v low fat milk powder (5%\
MPBS). Arrays were then probed for 2 h with antibodies\
diluted in 5%MPBS. All antibodies were used as 1/10\
dilutions except CCRC-M1 which was used at 1/50, and\
BS-400-2, BS-400-3 and BS-400-4 which were used at 1/\
200. After washing with PBS, arrays were incubated for 2 h\
in either anti-rat or anti-mouse secondary antibody conjugated\
to alkaline phosphatase (Sigma, Poole, UK) diluted 1/\
5000 in 5%MPBS. After washing in PBS, arrays were\
developed using a substrate containing 5-bromo,4-chloro,3-\
indolylphosphate (BCIP) and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT)\
in BCIP/NBT buffer (100mMNaCl, 5mMMgCl
\fs13 2
\fs20 , 100 mM\
diethanolamine, pH 9.5).\
Scanning and analysis\
Arrays were scanned, converted to 16 bit grey-scale TIFFs,\
transformed to negative images and uploaded into ImaGene\
6.0 microarray analysis software (BioDiscovery, El Segundo,\
CA, USA). Semi-automatic gridding was used to create an\
analysis area for each spot, and a 5-pixel zone around\
each spot was used for calculation of local background\
signals. Individual spot signals were defined as the mean\
pixel value within each spot area (red zone in Fig. \cf3 1\cf2 d)\
minus the median pixel value in the surrounding local\
background area (green zone in Fig. \cf3 1\cf2 d). The mean of the\
four individual spot signals for each sample was defined as\
the 
\f1 \'91
\f0 mean sample value
\f1 \'92 
\f0 (MSV) and 
\f1 \'91
\f0 total mean sample\
values
\f1 \'92 
\f0 (TMSVs) were the means of MSVs from three separate\
experiments. Selected data sets (TMSVs) were used\
to generate heatmaps (Figs. \cf3 2\cf2 b and \cf3 5\cf2 b) using online heat- mapper software (\cf3 http://bbc.botany.utoronto.ca/ntools/cgi-bin/\
ntools_heatmapper.cgi\cf2 ). For each antibody in the heatmap,\
the maximal TMSV was set to 100% and all other values\
within that data set adjusted accordingly. A cut off of 5%\
of the maximal TMSV was imposed. Hierarchical cluster\
analysis was performed on TMSVs obtained for 23 previously\
characterized antibodies and 7 newly produced ones\
using Epclust software (\cf3 http://ep.ebi.ac.uk/EP/EPCLUST/\cf2 ).\
Clustering was based on correlation measure based distance\
and average linkage. Indirect immunofluorescence labeling of plant materials\
Resin embedded and fresh plant material was sectioned and\
labelled with antibodies as described previously [\cf3 26\cf2 , \cf3 27\cf2 ].\
LM14 and LM13 hybridoma supernatants were used as 1/\
10 dilutions in 5%MPBS. Sections were counterstained for\
cellulose with Calcofluor white (fluorescent brightener 28,\
Sigma, Poole, UK) used as a 0.005% aqueous solution.\
Competitive-inhibition ELISA assays\
The ability of arabinose, galactose, rhamnose and oligoarabinosides\
to inhibit the binding of LM14 and LM13 to\
the immuogen in ELISAs was assessed as described\
previously [\cf3 28\cf2 ].\
Sugar composition analysis of modified pectic hairy regions\
(MHRs)\
Sugar composition was determined using methanolysis as\
described previously [\cf3 29\cf2 ]. MHRs were treated with 2 N\
HCl in dry methanol for 16 h at 80\'b0C, followed by 1 h of\
2 M CF
\fs13 3
\fs20 CO
\fs13 2
\fs20 H (TFA) at 121\'b0C. The released sugars were\
analysed using high-performance anion exchange chromatography\
(HPAEC) with pulsed amperometric detection\
(PAD) as described previously [\cf3 30\cf2 ].}